--- title: Terms --- There are two types of terms, *basic terms* as in first-order logic (*variables*, *constants* and *function applications)* and *extended terms* to represent special terms like *tuple* *terms*, *collection terms* (sets, maps, sequences, bags), the *conditional term*, *variable-binding terms*, etc.
- [Basic Terms](#basTerms) - [ConstantTerm](#ConstT) - [VariableTerm](#VarT) - [FunctionTerm](#FunT) - [Location Term](#LocationT) - [Extended Terms](#extTerms) - [TupleTerm](#TupleT) - [SequenceTerm](#SequenceT) - [SequenceCT](#SeqCT) - [SetTerm](#SetT) - [SetCT](#SetCT) - [BagTerm](#BagT) - [BagCT](#BagCT) - [MapTerm](#MapT) - [MapCT](#MapCT) - [ConditionalTerm](#ConditT) - [CaseTerm](#CaseT) - [LetTerm](#LetT) - [ExistTerm](#ExistT) - [ExistUniqueTerm](#ExistUniqT) - [ForallTerm](#forallT) - [DomainTerm](#DomT) - [RuleAsTerm](#RuleAsT) - [Infix Operators table](#infixOp) ### Basic Terms | **Model** **element** | **Concrete syntax** | | --- | --- | | **ConstantTerm** | **Complex number**, as in x**+i**y, where x and y are real numbers and **i** is the imaginary unit.
A complex number must be written without spaces within, because it is considered a unique token. E.g.: -2-**i**3| ||**Real terms** as floating point numbers. E.g: +3.4 , -3.4 , 3.4, 0.0 ,etc... | ||**Integer terms** as signed numbers. E.g.: 3, +3, -3, 0, etc... | ||**Natural numbers** as unsigned numbers plus the suffix "n". E.g.: 3n, 0n, etc...| ||**Char terms** as char literals delimited by single quotes. E.g.: 'a', '5', etc...
||**String terms** as a string of literals delimited of double quotes: E.g.: "hello", "1256", etc... ||**Boolean terms**: **true**, **false** ||**Undef term: undef** ||**Enum** **term:** e where e is an element of an enumeration type-domain. | | **VariableTerm** | v where v is a variable.
The variable can be a *location variable* (which is replaced by a *location term )*, or a *rule variable* (which is replaced by a *rule term* ), or a *logical variable* (which is replaced by a term that is neither a location term nor a rule term). | | **FunctionTerm** | [id **.** ]f [ **(** t1,...,tn **)** ] where: - f is the function to apply and (t1,...,tn) is a tuple term representing the actual parameters of the function f. If f is a 0-ary function, there is no tuple term.
- id is the agent that applies the function f. Within the rules of the ASM, each agent can identify itself by means of a special reserved 0-ary function self:Agent, which is interpreted by each agent a as a. For a function f:X->Y, for example, the expression f(self,x) or self.f(x) denotes the private version f(x) belonging to agent self. When it is clear from the contex who is denoted by self, notationally self is omitted.
| | **LocationTerm** | A specialized function term where f is a dynamic function fixed by the ASM signature. | ### Extended Terms | **Model****element** | **Concrete syntax** | | --- | --- | | **TupleTerm** | **(** t1,...,tn **)** where t1,...,tn are terms, that can have a distinct nature. The empty tuple is not allowed. | | **SequenceTerm** | **[** t1,...,tn **]** where t1,...,tn are terms of the same nature. **[ ]** denotes the empty sequence.
A finite sequence over numbers (real, integer and natural) can be also defined by means of an **interval notation**, as in **[** tlow : tupp [ ,s ] **]** where: - tlow and tuppare numbers representing, respectively, the lower and the upper elements of the sequence. - s is a positive number representing the step used to take the elements. If s is omitted it is assumed "**s=1**" by default.
